The question and concept we are discussing in this tutorial.
Is it rebels and traitors?
There will be three related questions to this JavaScript language category question.
The iterator concept is newly introduced in S6.
It's a kind of new mechanism to iterate or traverse through data structures.
As you know, Adi is already iterable.
It means if you want to put a far off loop on an array, then you can easily do that.
For example, I create an attic error.
And let me also put a few values in it.
I just put the follow up, let maybe one variable I off era.
And we say console.log the value of I.
If I run this, then we get the output.
Similarly, strings, maps, sets.
All these data collections are iterable.
But imagine that you have an object literally like this.
Now you want to use for off loop on this object.
In short, you want to make this object literal and iterable object.
You can do that in E6 using symbol dot iterator and we are going to implement or rather convert an object
literal into an iterable object as well.
But before we do that, I'm going to explain step by step syntax of the symbol dot iterator.
We will just see the basic syntax of the symbol that iterator with easier v that is the array.
Let's dig the same code often Eddi and iterate through using symbol dot iterator.
Let's try that.
So here I am going to say idea.
The reason I'm taking an object idea because the array should have a key called symbol dot iterator
which returns the iterable object.
So this is a kind of matter you are calling with g symbol dot iterator and that returns the iterable
object in idea.
Let's try to display the value of idea as we go on.
You will have a clear idea.
What exactly am I doing here?
Let me save this.
And run the core.
As you can see, the value of ideas is that it is an added iterator.
Now the next thing is that idea object will automatically have a next method which will iterate through
every element one by one so I can either see idea or not next.
Whatever it returns, I can store it in a variable and be displayed all weekend straightaway.
Display as well as we move to the next element as well.
So now if I run this, it'll start moving.
So now if you see this that ideas value is this, that is object added iterator, the next is value
and then the value is four, which is the zeroth element of added done is the status that it is not
yet done.
That is, the iteration is not over.
If I write this statement four times, let me write it five times.
In fact.
One, two.
And five.
I'll remove this idea.
Now again, we run to see what happens.
See this, we have the value for five, six, seven.
The last value is undefined every time dances false, but the last iterator returns this object itself.
The iterator returns this object which has value and the next iteration status.
So here we have.
True.
That means now it is done.
So now we have used this symbol that iterator to iterate through adding though our purpose is to iterate
through object literal as well.
I mean iterating through something which is not a treble.
So let's start doing that as well.
Imagine that you have an object like this.
Here you have two values, let's say START, which has, for example, whatever value it is.
And you also have the end, which again has, let's say, 15.
So now we want that we want to iterate through not the properties that is start and and so on.
We want to iterate through 10 to 15.
Now when I say iterate, it literally means that you should be able to have a far loop like this for
ie off object.
Now this is not possible.
We want that every time this loop is executed, the object is executed.
There has to be a value ten, 11, 12, and so on.
And it should go till the end of this value.
Let me just put the console also later on, it will give you the output.
Not at the moment.
At the moment, if I try to run this, certainly it will give me an error saying that object is not
iterable right.
It is not the iterable object.
So I cannot have far off with object.
And that's what we are going to do.
How?
Let's see the rules.
First of all, when you want to make an object iterable, it should have method whose key is symbol
dot iterator.
That means I am supposed to put a method inside object.
At the moment I'm defining the method separately, so I will say object.
Symbol Dart.
Iterator.
I'm adding a function to it.
Now, as I said, the object should have a symbol that iterator matter and that should return and iterable
object that should also have the next method as well.
So these are the rules you need to follow.
So first thing, I'm going to create any table object.
So I'll say it.
We're in it.
And this I'm going to return from this matter.
So I also return.
Idiot.
Now, this iterable object should have a next method.
So I'm going to put the next method.
It has to be next like this.
Only inside of this.
What I want is that if the object dot stock is less than equal to object art and then it should return.
As you saw in the ad, it also will return the value, which is going to be every time I'm going to
increment the start value.
So I'll say plus, plus do I am taking the same variable.
I should take a separate variable, but that's fine at the moment and then is equal to false else at
the end.
What we want is we do not want to return a value.
We just want to say none is true.
That's it.
Now let's try to run and see whether our object is it rebel or not.
Let me remind you that we have kept a far loop where we are putting far off on object.
So let's run this.
And there it is.
So now we have the value 10 to 15 right here.
So the condition here is you put the matter inside the object which returns and it label object like
here we have done this.
This.
If we want to simplify, then you can remove this return statement from this place.
Now, instead of this, if you just say return here, this should also work, right?
Because there is no difference as such in writing like this.
So now if I just run.
The output should be the same.
So we have this output.
The code is still running here.
Not only that, I have intentionally kept the function outside the object, but we can just cut this
function, the entire function.
Which is actually a matter of object and I can put it in.
The only difference will be we cannot have the Golan sign.
We cannot have the equal to sign.
So we'll put the Golan or we can go with the E6 index.
Like this.
This is also fine.
And we do not need any object because we are inside the object itself.
So now if you observe this, it is still going to be the same output.
In this code, the object object does not have the next method.
What I mean to say is that the next matter is actually a matter placed inside the symbol iterator method.
You also can place the next method as a part of the object like this.
Say for example, you are not going to return anything at the moment.
And this next method I am going to cut from this.
This is not needed at the moment, lest this is the end of symbology iterator method.
So I'll bring the bracket here.
Then come.
I'm going to add that this is now the next method of object itself.
Earlier, this next was part of symbol, not iterator.
Now I'm keeping next as part of object only.
Now, the only thing is when you write the symbol, that iterator, you must return the object itself.
Right?
Because there won't be any reference otherwise.
Now, if I run.
Still we get the output.
So this is even a better way of writing code though.
This has a limitation and the limitation is that this way is only possible when iterator and iterable
are the same object.
Also, if there are two or more for off running simultaneously, then this will not work.
Because see this symbol, that iterator and next they both are placed inside object.
So that will not be and it is returning the object itself.
So earlier this wasn't the case.
Earlier it was returning the iterator separately, but now they both are.
That is iterator and iterable are the same object.
So there cannot be two or more for of running simultaneously.
But actually that is also a very rare case.
So there is no harm in using this syntax.
Let's discuss related questions of this topic.
The first question is what is the purpose of iterator?
The use of an iterator is to make a data structure iterable, which is not eddies, strings, maps or
sets or other similar collections are already iterable.
But when you create an object which should have facility of putting for off loop on it, then you need
to create the iterator.
The second question is how do you create an iterator?
The symbol that iterator method must be implemented, which should return and iterator object and should
also have a next method which returns the object like this where you have the value and the done status,
or maybe the done status only like this when the iteration needs to end.
Third question is explain a practical use of an iterator when the use of any trader is not very prompt,
when you use it in the same scope like we have done that.
OBJ is also that the for loop is also there.
So it is in the same scope.
But let's say you have your own data structure which is used by other programmers.
Then the real charm comes into picture as the custom data structure which you have created needs to
have a provision of far off that is kind of loop.
Then if your object is not iterable, then it will not work.
So you are in a way creating a pointer to more in the data structure which you have provided to the
end user who is actually a programmer.